# nyc-gentrification
Our group wanted to understand the various effects of gentrification throughout New York City. Over the recent years New York City has experienced a huge influx of gentrification. Specifically, in areas throughout Brooklyn and Queens. We wanted to make a project to test the effects gentrification may have on crime rates. I was able to pull a large database of every shooting in and arrests in NYC from nyc.go. This data ranges from 2006 to 2018, the range was perfect to picture the growth of the effects in these areas. 

Breaking down the data: 
To break down the data I had to filter out a lot of information and clean it into what's relevant and what isn't. Now to sorting through the data, there were two datasets we were observing. One was arresting the other one was shootings. The arrests were the largest file to filter through with 4,798,339 reported arrests. The data is provided directly from the NYPD. The good part was the data was sorted with the borough in which the arrest was made. I started filtering there using both Queens and Brooklyn as a filter. Another issue was the various offense descriptions provided. A lot of offense descriptions were made in error and others coincided with a larger umbrella description. Due to the number of arrests and the types of arrests I decided it would be best to focus on large and more commonly known arrests. I focused on burglary, dangerous drugs and murders. Through this filter I was able to make visualizations to show the results. One time consuming aspect  was that the arrests were sorted by date and not year, so i had to produce a code that would break up the date for each incident into month day and year. Due to the size of the data, the code took a long time to run. 

The second data set was shootings this was every reported shooting in NYC. This included both fatal and non-fatal shootings. This dataset was a lot easier to sort through because it just had to be sorted through the borough it was reported in. Based off of that I was able to make visualization and count the number of shootings in Brooklyn and Queens between 2006 and 2018.  

The Process: 
The process to use our data to provide our results. With the arrests Filtering with the type of Offense and the year I performed a count and using Matplotlib I was able to plot the information into both a pie chart and a line graph. To understand both the percentages and also to be able to visualize a trend with the information. Sorting the shootings , I just used the borough and the year to perform a groupby. Using that I was able to perform a count and graph a pie chart and bar graph based off of that. 

The Results: 
The results, Let’s first look at Brooklyn. In terms of shootings, Brooklyn has had a steady decrease in number of shootings from 2006 to 2018. I calculated the percentage based on the total number of incident of shootings reported in Brooklyn. The data suggests 10% of those shootings were in 2006 to a stead decrease of 7.6% in 2012 to a mere 4.2% in 2018. In terms of burglaries, Brooklyn starts off at a low percentage of 5.6% to an increase of 9.4% along with property value increase in 2014. Then the percentage of burglaries decrease back to 5.8% in 2018. Drug violence also faces a steady decrease from 9.7% in 2006 to 3% in 2018. Murder rates in Brooklyn is the only factor that has remained at a steady percentage throughout. 

The results for Queens, in terms of shootings similar to Brooklyn there was a steady decrease from 9.7% to 4.8% ranging from 2006 to 2018. The number of burglaries in Queens also similar started at a low percentage of 6.8% to 9.6% in 2014 back down to 6.2% in 2018. Drugs also saw a major decrease starting at 8.8% and ending at 3.5% in 2018. Murders in Queens varied some years it was drastically high like in 2008 at 10% to drastically low in 2013 at 5.1% and back up at 2018 to 8.6% From these results the data does suggest that gentrification may have had some effect on certain crime rates in NYC. 


Opportunities and Limitations:
Future opportunities for this project would be exploring other aspects of gentrification within the city. For example, an increase in restaurants and types of restaurants in the area. As well as facilities like gyms and grocery stores that open up in the area throughout the years. Some limitations from the data were the inability to focus in on certain parts of Brooklyn and Queens. Not all of Brooklyn and Queens are gentrified yet parts like Williamsburg, Long Island City, and Astoria experience higher velocities of gentrification as opposed to Corona and Sheepshead Bay. The precinct and the longitude and latitude were provided. With more time this type of visualizations would be possible. 